---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "forgejo_repository Data Source - forgejo"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Forgejo repository data source
---

# forgejo_repository (Data Source)

Forgejo repository data source

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    forgejo = {
      source = "svalabs/forgejo"
    }
  }
}

provider "forgejo" {
  host = "http://localhost:3000"
}

# Existing user repository
data "forgejo_repository" "user" {
  owner = {
    login = "test_user"
  }
  name = "user_test_repo"
}
output "user_debug" {
  value = data.forgejo_repository.user
}

# Existing organization repository
data "forgejo_repository" "org" {
  owner = {
    login = "test_org"
  }
  name = "org_test_repo"
}
output "org_debug" {
  value = data.forgejo_repository.org
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the repository.
- `owner` (Attributes) Owner of the repository. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--owner))

### Read-Only

- `allow_merge_commits` (Boolean) Allowed to create merge commit?
- `allow_rebase` (Boolean) Allowed to rebase then fast-forward?
- `allow_rebase_explicit` (Boolean) Allowed to rebase then create merge commit?
- `allow_squash_merge` (Boolean) Allowed to create squash commit?
- `archived` (Boolean) Is the repository archived?
- `avatar_url` (String) Avatar URL of the repository.
- `clone_url` (String) Clone URL of the repository.
- `created_at` (String) Time at which the repository was created.
- `default_branch` (String) Default branch of the repository.
- `default_merge_style` (String) Default merge style of the repository.
- `description` (String) Description of the repository.
- `empty` (Boolean) Is the repository empty?
- `external_tracker` (Attributes) Settings for external issue tracker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--external_tracker))
- `external_wiki` (Attributes) Settings for external wiki. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--external_wiki))
- `fork` (Boolean) Is the repository a fork?
- `forks_count` (Number) Number of forks of the repository.
- `full_name` (String) Full name of the repository.
- `has_actions` (Boolean) Are integrated CI/CD pipelines enabled?
- `has_issues` (Boolean) Is the repository issue tracker enabled?
- `has_packages` (Boolean) Is the repository package registry enabled?
- `has_projects` (Boolean) Are repository projects enabled?
- `has_pull_requests` (Boolean) Are repository pull requests enabled?
- `has_releases` (Boolean) Are repository releases enabled?
- `has_wiki` (Boolean) Is the repository wiki enabled?
- `html_url` (String) HTML URL of the repository.
- `id` (Number) Numeric identifier of the repository.
- `ignore_whitespace_conflicts` (Boolean) Are whitespace conflicts ignored?
- `internal` (Boolean) Is the repository internal?
- `internal_tracker` (Attributes) Settings for built-in issue tracker. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--internal_tracker))
- `mirror` (Boolean) Is the repository a mirror?
- `mirror_interval` (String) Mirror interval of the repository.
- `mirror_updated` (String) Time at which the repository mirror was updated.
- `open_issues_count` (Number) Number of open issues of the repository.
- `open_pr_counter` (Number) Number of open pull requests of the repository.
- `original_url` (String) Original URL of the repository.
- `parent_id` (Number) Numeric identifier of the parent repository.
- `permissions` (Attributes) Permissions of the repository. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--permissions))
- `private` (Boolean) Is the repository private?
- `release_counter` (Number) Number of releases of the repository.
- `size` (Number) Size of the repository in KiB.
- `ssh_url` (String) SSH URL of the repository.
- `stars_count` (Number) Number of stars of the repository.
- `template` (Boolean) Is the repository a template?
- `updated_at` (String) Time at which the repository was updated.
- `watchers_count` (Number) Number of watchers of the repository.
- `website` (String) Website of the repository.

<a id="nestedatt--owner"></a>
### Nested Schema for `owner`

Required:

- `login` (String) Name of the user.

Read-Only:

- `email` (String) Email address of the user.
- `full_name` (String) Full name of the user.
- `id` (Number) Numeric identifier of the user.
- `login_name` (String) Login name of the user.


<a id="nestedatt--external_tracker"></a>
### Nested Schema for `external_tracker`

Read-Only:

- `external_tracker_format` (String) External issue tracker URL format.
- `external_tracker_style` (String) External issue tracker number format.
- `external_tracker_url` (String) URL of external issue tracker.


<a id="nestedatt--external_wiki"></a>
### Nested Schema for `external_wiki`

Read-Only:

- `external_wiki_url` (String) URL of external wiki.


<a id="nestedatt--internal_tracker"></a>
### Nested Schema for `internal_tracker`

Read-Only:

- `allow_only_contributors_to_track_time` (Boolean) Let only contributors track time.
- `enable_issue_dependencies` (Boolean) Enable dependencies for issues and pull requests.
- `enable_time_tracker` (Boolean) Enable time tracking.


<a id="nestedatt--permissions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `permissions`

Read-Only:

- `admin` (Boolean) Allowed to administer?
- `pull` (Boolean) Allowed to pull?
- `push` (Boolean) Allowed to push?
