---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "forgejo_user Resource - forgejo"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Forgejo user resource.
  Note: Managing users requires administrative privileges!
---

# forgejo_user (Resource)

Forgejo user resource.

**Note**: Managing users requires administrative privileges!

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    forgejo = {
      source = "svalabs/forgejo"
    }
  }
}

variable "test_password" { sensitive = true }

provider "forgejo" {
  host = "http://localhost:3000"
}

# User with default settings
resource "forgejo_user" "defaults" {
  login    = "test_user_defaults"
  email    = "test_user_defaults@localhost.localdomain"
  password = var.test_password
}

# User with custom settings
resource "forgejo_user" "non_defaults" {
  login       = "test_user_non_defaults"
  email       = "test_user_non_defaults@localhost.localdomain"
  password    = var.test_password
  full_name   = "Terraform Test User with non-default attributes"
  description = "Purely for testing..."
  website     = "https://forgejo.org/"
  location    = "Mêlée Island"
  visibility  = "private"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `email` (String) Email address of the user.
- `login` (String) Name of the user.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password of the user.

### Optional

- `active` (Boolean) Is the user active?
- `admin` (Boolean) Is the user an administrator?
- `allow_create_organization` (Boolean) Allow user to create organizations?
- `allow_git_hook` (Boolean) Allow user to create Git hooks?
- `allow_import_local` (Boolean) Allow user to import local repositories?
- `description` (String) Description of the user.
- `full_name` (String) Full name of the user.
- `location` (String) Location of the user.
- `login_name` (String) Login name of the user.
- `max_repo_creation` (Number) Maximum number of repositories user can create. A value of -1 means no limit.
- `must_change_password` (Boolean) Require user to change password?
- `prohibit_login` (Boolean) Are user logins prohibited?
- `restricted` (Boolean) Is the user restricted?
- `send_notify` (Boolean) Send notification to administrators?
- `source_id` (Number) Numeric identifier of the user's authentication source.
- `visibility` (String) Visibility of the user.
- `website` (String) Website of the user.

### Read-Only

- `avatar_url` (String) Avatar URL of the user.
- `created_at` (String) Time at which the user was created.
- `followers_count` (Number) Number of following users.
- `following_count` (Number) Number of users followed.
- `html_url` (String) URL to the user's profile page.
- `id` (Number) Numeric identifier of the user.
- `language` (String) Locale of the user.
- `last_login` (String) Time at which the user last logged in.
- `starred_repos_count` (Number) Number of starred repositories.
